Updates to chapter 1 (#15)
PecanProject/betydb-documentation: about_betydb.md

# About BETYdb: Database Description and User's Guide

> This wiki describes the purpose, design, and use of the Biofuel Ecophysiological

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This book describes the purpose, design, and use of the Biofuel Ecophysiological
```

Traits and Yields database (BETYdb) and the Ruby on Rails web application that
serves as a front end (also referred to as BETYdb).  The BETYdb database
contains plant trait and yield data that supports research, forecasting, and

> decision making associated with the development and production of cellulosic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
decision making associated with agricultural and ecological systems.
```

> biofuel crops. While the content of BETYdb is agronomic, the structure of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
biofuel crops. While the original focus of BETYdb was agronomy of cellulosic biofuels, the software has 
been adopted for use in ecological forecasting as the core database for the [PEcAn Project](https://pecanproject.org) 
and for high throughput phenotyping (phenotyping = measuring plants) applications in breeding and agronomy trials as the trait database for [TERRA REF](https://terraref.org) and related projects. 
```

> database itself is general and can therefore be used more generally for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generality of the database has facilitated these extended applications of the underlying software. 
```

> ecosystem studies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Citation

If you use or refer to BETYdb data or software in your research, please cite this paper:

> LeBauer, D., Kooper, R., Mulrooney, P., Rohde, S., Wang, D., Long, S. P., & Dietze, M. C. (2018). BETYdb: a yield, trait, and ecosystem service database applied to second‐generation bioenergy feedstock production. _GCB Bioenergy, 10_, 61–71.  [doi:10.1111/gcbb.12420](https://doi.org/10.1111/gcbb.12420){target="_blank"}

In addition, if you are using _data_ from an instance of BETYdb, please

1. Use the citations associated with each record if the publisher will allow
2. Archive a copy of the data used in the study. The data in BETYdb is not versioned.  
2. Refer to the footer of the instance of BETYdb that you are using for citation information.
   * For example, if you are using data from BETYdb.org, please cite the source of data as:

> > LeBauer, David; Dietze, Michael; Kooper, Rob; Long, Steven; Mulrooney, Patrick; Rohde, Gareth Scott; Wang, Dan; (2010): Biofuel Ecophysiological Traits and Yields Database (BETYdb); Energy Biosciences Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. [http://dx.doi.org/10.13012/J8H41PB9](http://dx.doi.org/10.13012/J8H41PB9){target="_blank"}

Author: @dlebauer  This doesn't match the current footer at www.betydb.org.  It essentially matches the version that was in the footer before we moved to putting this information in a YAML customization file (except that the author name list is more like APA style whereas the former footer's list is more like Chicago style).

For reference, the current footer has
> LeBauer, David, Rob Kooper, Patrick Mulrooney, Scott Rohde, Dan Wang, Stephen Long, Michael Dietze, (2017). BETYdb: A yield, trait, and ecosystem service database applied to second‐generation bioenergy feedstock production. GCB Bioenergy. doi:10.1111/gcbb.12420

In particular, the current footer has a different date year, different author list, and it references and uses the DOI of the GCB paper.

So I assume the example should be updated to match the current footer at betydb.org.  But first let me know if the citation information currently in the footer is correct or needs to be updated as well.  (As a side note, the contact phone number currently in the footer is your old U. of I. number, so that definitely needs to be updated.)

Reviewer: Thanks for catching and fixing this. This is the official citation:

LeBauer, David, Rob Kooper, Patrick Mulrooney, Scott Rohde, Dan Wang, Stephen P. Long, and Michael C. Dietze. "BETYdb: a yield, trait, and ecosystem service database applied to second‐generation bioenergy feedstock production." GCB Bioenergy 10, no. 1 (2018): 61-71. [doi:10.1111/gcbb.12420](https://doi.org/10.1111/gcbb.12420)

Would be great if you can preserve the doi hyperlink

The [Data Entry
Workflow](https://pecanproject.github.io/bety-documentation/dataentry/){target="_blank"}
provides a complete description of the data entry process. BETYdb’s web
interface has been developed to facilitate accurate and efficient data
entry. This interface provides logical workflow to guide the user
through comprehensively documenting data along with species, site
information, and experimental methods. This workflow is outlined in the
BETYdb Data Entry Workflow document. Data entry requires a login with `Create`
permissions; this can be obtained by contacting [David
LeBauer](mailto:dlebauer@email.arizona.edu).

## Software

> The BETYdb was originally developed in MySQL and later converted to PostgreSQL.  It uses Ruby on Rails for its web portal and is hosted on a CentOS Linux Server (ebi-forecast.igb.illinois.edu).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BETYdb uses PostgreSQL for its relational database and Ruby on Rails as its primary web portal. The database and software is deployed on CentOS, RedHat, and Ubuntu Linux servers. In 2018 we began using Docker to streamline deployment, and the [BETYdb repository README](https://github.com/pecanProject/bety#running-bety-using-docker) provides instructions for deploying BETYdb using Docker.
```

> BETYdb is a relational database designed in a generic way to facilitate easy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> implementation of additional traits and parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
